Capstone Project Milestone one 2017-21 batch
Capstone Project is the most important course in your Undergraduate Degree. First Milestone is a major task for that and consists of 20 Marks. Any laxity in preparing this may cost you your grade in this 6 credit course. The Form will be checked for Plagiarism using Turnitin/Cross-Check and Language Checker. IN case the Form is not submitted by Due date, for each late day your evaluated marks will be reduced by two marks. If your plagiarism score is more than 15% then you will get Zero marks overall. If your Language Checker has more than 50 errors in the whole Form, you will get Zero marks overall. This Form sets the journey for your critical and important step of life. Spend sufficient time to build the answers. For each Question, no of marks is given. You will either get Zero, Half or Full marks in every question for the content of your answer. The evaluation will be based on a) Whether you have properly researched, outlines described and analyzed your answers. b) Whether you have a global context and are able to articulate and convince a global audience with your answers c) Demonstration of Critical and Creative Thinking and Showcasing your best personality and skills through your answers d) Any Manipulation of using Spaces or other dummy characters to fulfil the minimum number of characters of each question will attract zero out 20 in the first milestone.
Email address *
sm4239@bennett.edu.in
Write Your Name *
Sonali Mehta
Write your Enrollment Number *
E17CSE169
Write your alternate Email Address *
sonalimeh1912@gmail.com
Write your Mobile Number *
9711853233
How many members in the team including you *
Two
Write names and Enrollment Nos of your Team Members. Write None if you are alone. *
Alarsh Tiwari - E17CSE132
Capstone Project Title *
It should be catchy, Self-describing and clear. This Question Carries One Mark.
Stress-less
Describe Your Project *
This is like answering someone's question.. "What are you doing as a Capstone Project" or "What is your Capstone Project" or "Can you tell something about your Capstone Project". Please write a Minimum 500 and Maximum 1000 Characters.This Question Carries One Mark.
Work-spaces need a proper system to focus on their employees’ mental health. Hence the project is about monitoring the stress level in an organization using algorithms involving different neural networks and sharing the data with the HR manager of the company on a weekly basis. Monitoring the stress level of every employee in an organization is a difficult task for an HR, so this automation will bring about a great change in the company’s work culture and help the company to increase productivity of their employees. Stress management is the key problem in today’s world, especially in industries working in and around technology.
Why I have Chosen This Project *
It basically reasons for your choice of this project from so many other options that are available. How it aligns with your interests, personality, strength, skills, ambitions or passion. Please write a Minimum 500 and Maximum 1000 Characters. This Question Carries One Mark.
I’ve a great interest in data science and I wanted to learn more in this field. Previously, I’ve worked on projects related to deep learning and natural language processing. So, this time I wanted to work on the most important topic which is about stress level management in technical industries using my previous knowledge of deep learning and natural language processing. Mental health is perhaps one of the most important aspects that plays a role in a person’s overall work efficiency. I wanted to make a product as my capstone project which industries could use in near future.
What Problem(s) it solves. *
What issue or need it addresses. Please write Minimum 500 and Maximum 1000 Characters.This Question Carries One Mark.
Stress level at work places should be monitored regularly so that employees can work efficiently in an organization. This will not only help the employees to maintain a balanced life, but will also help companies to increase productivity of their employees. Monitoring the mental health of employees will help the organization in maintaining a good work culture. Currently, these things are monitored by employees’ performance, and it’s difficult for HR to look after every employee of the organization. So, the product will help the organization to look after their employees.
Who will be the potential clients/customers/users/startups/beneficiaries of the project. Describe appropriately. *
Be specific so that the prospective target for your project is clear. It clearly specifies the Audience of your proejct. Please write minimum 500 and maximum 1000 Characters.This Question Carries One Mark.
Potential customers will be all organizations, who want a healthy work environment for their employees. The organizations who are willing to increase their productivity by taking care of their work culture and understanding their employees. Organizations like Technical industries, Educational industries and all multinational companies. Big organizations need this kind of system to monitor the stress level and take appropriate action on it. Organization and employees of these organizations will get benefited by this project.
What will be the innovation in this project? *
Write at least Three Innovations. Please write Minimum 500 and Maximum 1000 Characters.This Question Carries One Mark.
The main concern of the company is security of their data, so to tackle this problem we will be maintaining a cloud platform which only the company can access and the records will be deleted as soon as the analysis is done. The analysis will be done in real time on a cloud platform, so the system is secured and robust. Stress level will not only be monitored by the speech module but also with the help of a person's heart rate and blood pressure module. The task of monitoring the stress level will be automated in an efficient manner and no extra work has to be done by the employee. The analysis is completely automated and speech samples for testing would be taken from employees during briefings/meetings. Since at no stage of the whole process human intervention is included, the output in general is completely unbiased.
How it will be different from similar existing solutions. *
Take at least three existing applications which are most closer to your project proposal and how you will be differentiating and bench marking with these three. You need to specifically name these three applications and compare. Min 1000 Character and Max 2000 Characters. This Question Carries One Mark.
As of now HR managers in companies conduct regular meetings with employees to check and maintain a good work culture in the company. That being said, there is no such automated prominent measure that is common in companies, tech or otherwise, to automate the process of gauging the stress level in employees. So, to automate this process our product can help by giving an weekly (or any other pre-decided time period) analysis to the HR department to further work upon the employees and different sections of the company. Also the inclusion and implementation of hardware in the project would increase the overall efficiency. Lastly, the whole automated approach is cut off completely from any human intervention that'd be hotels on company’s private cloud infrastructure, ensuring that there are no leaks or biased results. It can be easily understood that several times employees are not comfortable in admitting the stress that they undergo in their workplace. If HR managers have such an automated tool at their disposal, then it’d become quite easy for them to understand the stress employees of different departments go through at the end of a pre-decided period.
What makes it challenging enough to be chosen to be done in four months (Aug-Nov) *
There are two parts to the question. First, you need to articulate that what perspective of the project is challenging enough that makes it worthwhile to do as a capstone project. Second is whether it has the proportionate scope of being done in Four Months. (and can not be done in two months or will not require more than four months). Minimum Character Count is 500 characters and Maximum 1000 Characters.This Question Carries One Mark.
The main task is to analyse the emotion of people by their voice and how they react in certain situations. We have to figure out an appropriate algorithm using neural networks so that the emotion of people can be recognized correctly. Second task is to differentiate the voice of different people and analyse emotion on the basis of voice. Performing all the processing on cloud is a great task which might take a lot of time and effort. Third task is to integrate all modules together and make the algorithm capable to take in data at real time autonomously, perform analysis and destroy any test voice samples after that. Fourth task is to implement any required hardware and integrate it with the algorithms running in the back-end. With team effort and regularity, the goal of this project can be achieved in four months which is to design an appropriate system to analyse the stress level of employees. To design a system like this will take about four months. We are planning to complete all the four tasks of our project in one by one by giving one module a complete 1 month time.
How it reflects and uses the knowledge gained as part of your UG curriculum covered in the last three years *
Minimum 500 Characters and Maximum 1000 Characters.This Question Carries One Mark.
In the last three years, I’ve learned several new technologies which will be required to do this project. The knowledge of using different techniques of natural language processing to process the data and analyse the human emotions will play an important role while doing this project. Cloud computing is an essential part of this project, as we want our product to be completely deployed on cloud for processing. Knowledge gained in the past three years will be used while completing the capstone project.
How you will measure the success/outcome/quality of your project *
What will be your parameters of achievement in your project and Why? It will be used for assessment at the time of final evaluation. Your honest articulation will be checked in this answer. Minimum 500 Characters and Maximum 1000 Characters. This Question Carries One Mark.
Distinguishing people’s voices is the first task of the project, so our first task will be to train our model in a way that it can distinguish different voices and identify the person correctly. Implementing a whole bio-metric system with accuracy is an important component of our project as connecting the bio-metric system’s data with the cloud could be a difficult task. Creating a model that can identify human emotion through voice recognition will be an important parameter of this project. Deploying the whole model on cloud will be our next task, also the most important task.
Resources required for the project and the feasibility of their availability as per the plans *
May be software, Hardware, Datasets, Funds, Equipment etc. Minimum 300 Characters and Maximum 1000 Characters.This Question Carries One Mark.
Workstations(laptop) running on Windows with dedicated graphics card support(8 GB ram) and good CPU processors(Intel i5 gen 8) Python IDE(with libraries and related APIs) HTML/CSS, JavaScript Flask and other Cloud APIs\ LibriSpeech data-set(300 GB of spoken articles) Webcam and other hardware as required Further tentative requirements(Materials/funding requested from University) Raspberry Pi 4 X1 Jetson Nano X1 Arduino boards X2 Bio-metric for Arduino (1 or 2) Heart monitor for Arduino(X2) Cloud Computing(GCP/AWS) resources for training, testing and hosting at real-time. DGX supercomputer access for preliminary and comparison of different algorithms.
If you are a team of 2 or more then clearly define responsibilities with name and how each member should be assessed differently *
If you are alone then also describe that why you thought that you should do it alone.Please write a Minimum 500 and Maximum 1000 Characters.This Question Carries One Mark.
Alarsh Tiwari :- Responsible for back-end development, logic and core codes. Also responsible for implementation and integration of robotic/hardware parts with the software and hosting on cloud computing with resource allocation. Responsible for overall documentation as well. Sonali Mehta :- Responsible for back-end development, logic and core codes. Also responsible for creating an interface for displaying the results and HR interaction via API implementation. Responsible for overall documentation as well.
Short and long term planning with detailed and logical steps and timelines *
Please write a Minimum 1000 and Maximum 2000 Characters.This Question Carries One Mark.
In the first month we will try to complete our first module which is distinguishing the voices of different people and connecting this module with the bio-metric module to identify the speaker correctly. This will be our first module which has to be done in the first month. Our second module will identify the stress level of a person through their voice and maintaining a database for considering the emotion and stress level throughout the week. This module will be completed by the end of second month. Now, we have all the data on which we have identified the emotional level of a person, now we will try to deploy our whole model on cloud while keeping in mind the security concerns of the company. This will be our third module and must be completed by the third month. Next we will have to test our model with different data and do the desired changes in each module so that in the final product there will be no error. This process of connecting every module and testing it with different inputs will be done in the fourth month. The final process would be implementation of hardware with bio-metric and other hardware and integrate that with the running back-end algorithms.
Evidence/literature/research/survey etc. in support of the hypothesis or idea to be successful. (Local/National/International Context) *
What makes you believe that it will be successful. If there are some validation, supporting theory or literature available , then please cite it here. You can also give some references in this answer that have been used to build up your proposal.Please write a Minimum 2000 and Maximum 4000 Characters.This Question Carries Three Marks.
What makes you believe that it will be successful. If there is some validation, supporting theory or literature available , then please cite it here. You can also give some references in this answer that have been used to build up your proposal.Please write a Minimum 2000 and Maximum 4000 Characters.This Question Carries Three Marks. Mental Health is a growing concern for people from all age groups today. People in corporate have to maintain a good work environment to ensure maximum work efficacy and good relations between the management and the employees. The project we have planned for the capstone is targeting the very same issue. “https://www.stress.org/workplace-stress#:~:text=29%25%20of%20workers%20felt%20quite,than%20financial%20or%20family%20problems” From the articles published in the American Institute of Stress(AIS), we read that workplace stress is indeed a severe issue in companies nowadays and the results of it somehow go beyond just reduced work efficiency which includes employees getting violent verbally and quitting their jobs. This not only threatens the peaceful work environment of a workplace but also may result in disruption in the flow of tasks that a manager has to ensure completion of in a timely manner. “https://transparency.kununu.com/unique-ways-top-companies-help-employees-manage-stress/” This article tells us that companies are really trying to reduce the stress level of their employees by adopting some techniques which help employees to work efficiently. Companies are really concerned about their work culture and their overall productivity, this can only happen when the employees are working in an environment which is stress free. So, our product will efficiently indicate the stress level of employees to the company, through which company can take necessary steps to reduce the stress level and create a healthy environment for employees. Department wise analysis would help HR to keep track of the work environment of the company. “https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6586438/” In this article, we found that sufficient work has been done in the field of speaker identification if two people are talking. Voice IDs would be assigned to individuals and variables from audio signals would be matched. We aim to implement the same for several people at once and then carry out an analysis simultaneously.
Risk Analysis (What are the factors which pose risk of failure of your project and risk of not completing your project by deadline) *
How you are taking care of these risks so that they can be avoided.Please write a Minimum 500 and Maximum 1000 Characters.This Question Carries One Mark.
The major challenge we will have here is to distinguish different speakers based on their respective voices. Since a major part of our efforts would be directed in this direction, failure in its implementation could result in the overall delay of the whole product. Also the success of the project heavily depends on the accomplishment of this module. Secondly, the module that we are implementing to judge the stress level of an individual is also a crucial part of the project. Accuracy in the output of the model supporting this module is of utmost importance. Lastly, the dependency of the whole project on cloud computing hosting is high too. Failure in proper implementation in that part may result in complete failure in integration of several modules and hence the overall product.
Give Names of Three Persons with emais ids whom you have discussed the details of the project and what was their reaction/suggestion. *
It is important to converse and take perspective on your proposal from others. Take one each form (Industry, Your parents, friends, teachers etc).Please write a Minimum 500 and Maximum 1000 Characters.This Question Carries One Mark.
Dr. Indrajeet Gupta (indrajeet.gupta@bennett.edu.in) Assistant Professor at Bennett University The project is good, but the team has to work consistently to complete the project in the given time frame. The idea is unique and new, companies these days care about their employees' mental health and want to maintain a good work culture. This project has a great scope in future. Dr. Vipul Kumar Mishra (vipul.mishra@bennett.edu.in) Assistant Professor at Bennett University The idea will bring a change in organizations, but the team should keep in mind the security aspect of the product implementation and do something to solve the security concern of the organization. Dr. Anurag Goswami (anurag.goswami@bennett.edu.in) Assistant Professor at Bennett University Overall the project will have a great impact in the industry sector and it will bring about a positive change in the work culture of any organization.
List Three Projects with their Brief that you have done in the First year, Second year and Third year of your B.Tech Degree. Also list your teammates in each Project. *
Min 600 Characters and Max 1200 Characters. This Question Carries One Mark.
CopyCat Speech generation - Python( NLP, Deep Learning) | Team ( Alarsh Tiwari, Rushil Goomer) NLP model to create Speech according to the style of some famous personalities i.e Narendra Modi. Users just have to give the key points and speech will be generated according to the speech style of Narendra modi. Models used - Skip-gram model and LSTM. Blind Commentary App with implemented hardware | Team ( Alarsh Tiwari, Sourabh Chawala) This project tries to transform the visual world into the audio world with the potential to tell blind people what is happening around them. What people are doing or what action is happening around them is detected from the scene using Picam attached to the bag's strap and a commentary is generated for blind people which is converted into audio and transmitted to the user with earphones. Recipe suggesting Module using Python and MySQL | Team (Sahaana Das and Lekhana) Created a module for suggesting different Recipes from the ingredients available and suggesting what to cook according to the weather (Machine learning) using Python and MySQL as a database.
List down the Ethics, Privacy, Moral and Legal issues related with the project *
Even if there are no issues, then describe how it fulfils all the norms. Please write a Minimum 500 and Maximum 2000 Characters.This Question Carries One Mark.
We understand from our discussions with various people from industry sector as well as with the faculties at Bennett University, that individuals won’t be particularly comfortable with providing us with their audio samples for training the module for distinguishing between different speakers. Also people may be skeptical that their voice is being recorded during meetings/briefings continuously for evaluation by the second module’s algorithm to judge the stress levels. This may result in people thinking that this is indeed an intrusion to their privacy and hence the whole concept may be judged immoral. The solution we propose for the same is the complete removal of any human intervention in the entire process. The algorithm would ask any newly recruited employee to read and recite a 10-15 min paragraph from a given article to store their voice IDs. Also the voice samples that’d be taken during their meetings/briefings would be fed directly to the cloud(private cloud of the company, if they have any) and all the analysis would be done autonomously without any human intervention. Also the files would be self-destructed after the analysis is completed. We also plan to encrypt the audio files during transfer to further minimize any potential security breach.